pages/experience/morphis.md, before:

---
company: Morphis
location: Lisbon
title: Product Owner and Senior Developer
date: 2016-01-01
period: JUN 2019 - PRESENT
tags: experience
---
A couple years after, I was at Morphis, I’ve worked in migrating legacy to modern platforms. mostly from Oracle Forms, I was part of the core team.  I’ve worked with .NET C# and Java Enterprise applications, NodeJS, Angular and React, etc Further modernizingand complementing the Morphis Frames product.

Here I had also the oportunity to implement a set of tools and methodologies that still are being used today. By defining the way software development and releases could use technologiy to aid the bysiness. I’ve used virtualization technologies like VMWare, Virtualbox, KVM and Docker containers. Build tools like Maven, Gradle, Ant, Grunt and test our applications with Selenium. 

And this methodologies helped us to work with **Ellucian**, helping them to migrate their Banner product from **Oracle Forms** to our Java / Frames application.

Commit message:

added more information to experience

pages/experience/morphis.md, after:

---
company: Morphis
location: Lisbon
title: Product Owner and Senior Developer
date: 2016-01-01
period: JUN 2019 - PRESENT
tags: experience
---
A couple years after, I was at **Morphis**, related with  **ATX Technologies**, I’ve worked in migrating legacy to modern platforms. mostly from **Oracle Forms**, I was part of the core team.  I’ve worked with **.NET C#** and **Java Enterprise** applications, **NodeJS**, **Angular** and **React**, etc Further modernizingand complementing the **Morphis Frames** product.

I was back where I've ended, to the **XPL**, and now we needed to evolve to multi platform, was a time of several UI technologies, like **Adobe Flex** and **Microsoft XAML**. And so, I've started working on a multi output rendering engine that could support several UI targets and all the support core libraries in those frameworks for data binding, components, formatting and validation.

The Adobe Flex, with a Java backend, was initially used by **SoulMV - MV Sistemas** - Brasil, a medical platform used in Hospitals. We have migrated from Oracle Forms to a more modern web based platform. I've also created all the **Ant** configurations and scripts  to help bootstrap and maintain this large project. Later, and because the Adobe Flex was deprecated,  we migrated to the latest, and higher performant, Morphis Frames and Foundations.

Finally, some of the technologies were depreciating and we needed a more modernizes and multi-backend solution (C# or Java). Developed from scratch, the new product version, named Morphis Frames, and the backends named Morphis Foundations, started to born. Now with:
- a UI compiler, and with possibility of having UI rules and extensibility (a module could be extended - by adding new features / components to the pages).
- A visual designer integrated with Eclipse and Visual Studio, to create UI specifications by dragging and dropping components
- A backend simulator, to transform a recorder session in a replicable environment for testing or demoing without needing a real backend.
- And a testing framework, based on Sellenium and WebDriver IO, to make it very simple to test the UI interactions (mostly for testing the migration and regressions).

This new product was used at MV Sistemas, and also in **Ellucian**, a university software platform from U.S.A. Ellucian was a migrating their Ellucian Banner from Oracle Forms to Morphis Frames and Foundations (Java) with hundreds of complex modules and components. I've create the initial project using  **Maven** and configure a private Maven repository to deploy our artefacts. Later, I've also worked with the Ellucian UX team to guide them to achieve better UI/UX from the final product. Also, very important to Ellucian, was the requirement to the application to achieve the best **Web Accessibility** possible to work with screen readers and making their application accessible to people with disabilities. Later, this products were both by Ellucian and the team still is working to evolve this.

Here I had also the oportunity to implement a set of tools and methodologies that still are being used today. By defining the way software development and releases could use technologiy to aid the bysiness. I’ve used virtualization technologies like **VMWare**, **Virtualbox**, **KVM** and **Docker** containers. Build tools like **Maven**, **Gradle**, **Ant**, **Grunt** and test our applications with **Selenium**. 

And this methodologies helped us to work with Ellucian, helping them to migrate their Banner product from Oracle Forms to our Java / Frames application.

Has a side note, ATX or Morphis, were always companies that were close to Universities and the PLX/XPL or Frames, were subjects of several master degrees papers where I was the coordinator (or drive). I couldn't be more proud to have so many great people taking about a product that I've contributed so much.

Before I've left Morphis, we were starting to evolve the product to new technologies like Angular and React. They are using all the React components in their Morphis Cuscos product.
